projectflow:

1. Okay so I wanted to work for my analytics project on Sakila data, just to prsactice SQL,its various functions
and report making and powerBI dashboard creation.
2. But due to local storage constraints, I decided why not use docker to create a container and work on it.
3. So I created a container with postgres image and pgadmin4 image.
Now the problem with sakila is that it is a sample database for MySQL and not for postgres.
4. So I decided to use pagila database which is a sample database for postgres.
5. I made a docker-compose file to create the containers and run them.Also just for pratice I created a network and volume.
6. I downloaded the pagila schema and data files from the internet in my work diretory.
This isn't what I was initially planning to do, I wanted to create a ingest_pagila.py file to ingest the data into the database.
But I am inexperienced in sqlalchemy,so despite making connection and schema of the database, I was unable to insert the data into the database.
This is mainly due to my inexperienc in writing such python file, and LLMs are not helping me in this regard. There is some metdata
in the data files which I am unable to understand how to handle. So furing data insertion it was throwing errors.
7. So I decided to insert the data manually into the database, using the downloaded file.
I copied them into the postgres container and then inserted the data into the database.

To do that:
docker cp pagila-schema.sql 4bc227ec240f:/pagila-schema.sql
docker cp pagila-data.sql 4bc227ec240f:/pagila-data.sql
4bc227ec240f is the container id of the postgres container. You can directly use the container name as well.
After that do the following:
docker exec -it 4bc227ec240f bash 
to enter the container shell.
If you do "ls" in the shell you'll see the pagila-schema.sql and pagila-data.sql files.
8. Now you can insert the data into the database.
psql -U postgres -d pagila_entertainment
to enter the database shell.
9. Now, run the SQL files to create the schema and load the data:
\i /pagila-schema.sql
\i /pagila-data.sql
10. Now you can check the tables in the database using \dt command. If you found an error saying : Did not find any relations, then do:
It maybe because the search path is not set properly. So do:
SET search_path TO public;
To make it permanent across session do:
ALTER DATABASE pagila_entertainment SET search_path TO public;
11. Now you can see the tables in the database.
12. Lets sonnect the pgadminPagila to the database and run some queries on it. It is being locally hosted on port 5050. 
13. Remember that we are in a network, so the host is pgdatabase and not localhost.The port is 5432 not 5431